In this video, you will
learn how to model
the cameras projective geometry
through the coordinate
system transformation.
These transformations can
be used to project points
from the world frame
to the image frame,
building on the pinhole
camera model
from the previous video.
Recall that you've already used
transformations
extensively in Course 2.
You will then model
these transformations
using matrix algebra and
apply them to a 3D point to get
it's 2D projection
onto the image plane.
Finally, you will
learn how camera
2D images are
represented in software.
Equipped with
the projection equations
in image definitions,
you will then be able to create
algorithms for
detecting objects in
3D and localizing
the self-driving car
later on in the course.
First, let's define
the problem we need to solve.
Let's start with a
point O world defined at
a particular location in
the world coordinate frame.
We want to project
this point from
the world frame to
the camera image plane.
Light travels from
the O world on the object
through the camera aperture
to the sensor surface.
You can see that our projection
onto the sensor surface through
the aperture results in
flipped images of
the objects in the world.
To avoid this confusion,
we usually define
a virtual image plane
in front of the camera center.
Let's redraw our camera model
with this sensor plane
instead of the real image
plane behind the camera lens.
We will call this model the
simplified camera model,
and need to develop
a model for how to project
a point from the world
frame coordinates x,
y and z to,
image coordinates u
and v. We begin by
defining the following
characteristics
of the cameras that are
relevant to our problem.
First, we select
a world frame in which to
define the coordinates of
all objects and the camera.
We also define the camera
coordinate frame as
the coordinate frame
attached to the center of
our lens aperture known
as the optical sensor.
As we learned from Course 2,
we can define a translation
vector and a rotation matrix
to model any transformation
between a world coordinate
frame and another,
and in this case,
we'll use the world
coordinate frame and
the camera coordinate frame.
We refer to the parameters
of the camera
pose as the extrinsic parameters,
as they are external to
the camera and specific
to the location of the camera
in the world coordinate frame.
We define our image coordinate
frame as the coordinate
frame attached
to our virtual image plane
emanating from
the optical center.
The image pixel coordinate
system however,
is attached to
the top left corner
of the virtual image plane.
So we'll need to adjust
the pixel locations to
the image coordinate frame.
Next, we define the focal length
is the distance between
the camera and the
image coordinate frames
along the z-axis of
the camera coordinate frame.
Finally, our projection
problem reduces to two steps.
We first need to project from
the world to the camera
coordinates,
then we project from
the camera coordinates to
the image coordinates.
We can then transform
image coordinates to
pixel coordinates through
scaling and offset.
We now have the geometric model
to allow us to
project a point from
that world frame to the image
coordinate frame,
whenever we want.
Let us formulate
the mathematical tools
needed to perform this
projection using linear algebra.
First, we begin with
the transformation
from the world to the camera
coordinate frame.
This is performed using
the rigid body
transformation matrix T,
which has R and little t in it.
The next step is to transform
camera coordinates to
image coordinates.
To perform this transformation,
we define the matrix K as
a three-by-three matrix.
This matrix depends on
camera intrinsic parameters,
which means it depends on
components internal to the camera
such as the camera geometry
and the camera lens
characteristics.
Since both transformations
are just matrix multiplications,
we can define a matrix P
as K times R and t,
that transforms from
the world coordinate
frame all the way to
the image coordinate frame.
The coordinates of point O in
the world frame can now be
projected to the image plane via
the equation O sub image is
equal to P times O sub world,
which is k times R
and t of O sub world.
So, let's see what we're still
missing to compute this equation.
When we expect
the matrix dimensions,
we noticed that
the matrix multiplication
cannot be performed.
To remedy this problem,
we transform the coordinates of
the point O into
homogeneous coordinates,
and this is done by adding
a one at the end of the 3D
coordinates as we saw
in the second state
estimation course.
So, now the dimensions
work and we're all
ready to start computing
our projections.
Now, we need to perform
the final step,
transforming the image
coordinates to pixel coordinates.
We do so by dividing x and y by
z to get homogeneous coordinates
in the image plane.
You have completed the basic
camera projection model.
In practice, we usually model
more complex phenomena
such as non-square pixels,
camera access skew, distortion
and non unit aspect ratio.
Luckily, this only changes
the camera K matrix,
and the equations you
have learned can be used
as is with a few
additional parameters.
Now that we have formulated
the coordinates of projection
of a 3D point onto
the 2D image plane,
we want to define
what values go into
the coordinates in
a 2D color image.
We will start with
a grayscale image.
We first define a width N
and a height M of an image,
as the number of rows and
columns the image has.
Each point in 3D projects
to a pixel on
the image defined by
the uv coordinates
we derived earlier.
Zooming in, we can see
these pixels is a grid.
In grayscale, brightness
information is written
in each pixel as
an unsigned eight bit integer.
Some cameras can produce
unsigned 16-bit integers
for better quality images.
For color images, we have
a third dimension of value
three we call depth.
Each channel of
this depth represents how
much of a certain color
exists in the image.
Many other color
representations are available,
but we will be using
the RGB representation,
so red green blue,
throughout this course.
In conclusion, an image
is represented
digitally as an M by N by
three array of pixels,
with each pixel
representing the projection
of a 3D point onto
the 2D image plane.
So, in this video,
you learned how to project
3D points in the world coordinate
frame to 2D points in
the image coordinate frame.
You saw that the equations that
perform this projection rely on
camera intrinsic
parameters as well as
on the location of the camera
in the world coordinate frame.
As we'll see later
throughout the course,
this projection model is used in
every visual perception
algorithm we develop,
from object detection to
derivable space estimation.
Finally, you've learned how
images are represented in
software as an array
representing pixel locations.
You're now ready to start working
directly with images
and software,
as you'll do in
this week's assessments.
In the next video,
you will learn how to
tailor the camera model to
a specific camera by computing
its intrinsic and extrinsic
camera parameters
through a process known
as camera calibration.